# kholajamshad.github.io
"web portfolio for comm lab."

1. 30MFF Website

This projects aims to create a website for the presentation of my portfolio. This will primarily include projects from my Communications Lab course taken in Fall 2020 at NYUAD. I will also be including any other artistic work or scientific communication ventures I have worked on.

I wanted the overall look of the website to be simplistic and easy to navigate and I then developed the aesthetics and interactivity to compliment it. The colour palette consists largely of black and white with splashes of violet and dark red as compliments or "highlights" on screen. I used my own digital art for the home screen even though it did not have the most refined look and I added behind the scenes pictures on the video page. I felt that it complimented our 30MFF video which felt very "made at home". I wanted to give the website a more organic, fun look rather than an entirely polished one.

I have used HTML, CSS and Javascript to build the website. I started the process by making a very rough sketch of the layout using Xd in which I decided what content to put on each page and how to link it together. Then I coded the html and css for the main page to experiment with the color schemes and positioning of content. I found it easier to experiment on the home page for aesthetics since it had less content and I had more space on the screen to play around with, and because this would be the first impression for aesthetics for the user. The contact page was kept extremely simple with my contact information drawing the most attention and I want to add only a few lines of introduction since I do not want to influence too generally how the user perceived my work.

The video page was designed to highlight the video which was about three people dealing with wearing masks during the COVID-19 epidemic in their individual way. It was a very social media style video and so I felt that the users should have immediate access to the artists to have a better insight into their viewpoints and styles. Therefore, I decided to keep the artist pictures fairly big and I intend to link to the artists' webpages from their images later. Still, all content besides the video was kept smaller and moved below the video on window rescaling so as not to distract from the "main product". I added interactivity using javascript in the video page by having the bts images present in a slide show manner whenever the buttons are clicked. Currently, I only have two pictures but I want to expand the gallery. This is because I want the video to have more context and create a famililarity with the user but also because I do not want everything to be immediately visible so that they spend some time on the website exploring and (hopefully) becoming more interested. 

I think that deciding the layout would have been a lot more productive for me with a bit more understanding of how css positioning works since then I could better set up the divisions and classes in html to correspond with it initially and used more of my time on the aesthetics rather than positioning. The general color scheme of the website looks how I wanted it to and I feel that I'll be able to compliment the presentation my future projects with it well also. However, I do feel like I did not entirely capture the fun aspect I wanted in the website because I had intended to do a lot of that using javascript interactivity but did not have time to. However, I managed to add some interactive animation with css when the mouse hovers over the navigation bar and artist pictures.

Khola Jamshad (kj1263)
01/10/2020


				---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


2. Comix

Project Name: “Wake-up, Zoom, Sleep, Repeat”

*Project Description*:
For this assignment, we had to create an interactive comic using 2D software such as Adobe Illustrator and/or Photoshop to create the content. Our group decided to create something relatable and close to us at the moment. Our simple web comic goes through the daily life of an NYUAD student “Robyn” (arbitrarily chosen name) on campus during the remote semester. The story begins with a sunrise and the general daily routine involves waking up, having breakfast, zoom, lunch, zoom, dinner, shower, and sleep (and the process repeats every day, hence the project name).

One of our main goals is to highlight the repetitive nature of this lifestyle both during the day and between days. The other is to portray how the excessive increased screen time that comes with online-learning (among other activities that are not remote due to the pandemic) makes us feel as if we are always in front of our laptops/computers. Although most students are not on campus, this story is just one variation of a semester of online-learning during the COVID-19 pandemic, and incorporates elements that most can relate to regardless of where they are currently taking their classes from. The daily life of Robyn is portrayed as very mundane and habitual as these are the daily tasks that most people would be able to relate to. We wanted the audience to be able to fill in their own daily experiences in specific gaps such as the space between panels (so the audience goes through one panel at a time and can imagine the day ahead or reflect on what has passed) as well as minor details in the story line we intentionally chose to leave out.

We also wanted to take advantage of the medium the comic is delivered in. In conventional comics, multiple panels are arranged in one page at a time such that the reader goes through the horizontal and vertical panels in a specific chronological order. In a webpage, we are not confined to the specific horizontal and vertical dimensions (we can even scroll past the size of our screen) so we wanted to use the scrolling to our advantage and tell our story in a specific chronological sequence: one panel at a time.

As per McCloud, it can be difficult to depict motion and represent sounds in conventional comics. Once again, we adapted these comic principles by adding actual animations and sounds as an interactive component instead of motion lines and onomatopoeias. However, we still wanted to keep some more conventional principles such as the comic narration box with a very comics-reminiscent font style. We specifically chose these instead of speech bubbles even though the story is told in first person because Robyn is narrating her own story, not necessarily speaking in them. We also keep the dialogue slightly general so that it works for repeated days and any days.

*Process*:
The first panel acts almost as an introduction with the sun coming out and marks a classic beginning of the story. The panel backgrounds in the first half are all new and fresh but then begin to repeat in the latter half. At the end of the day, the “Next Day” button also takes the audience back to the beginning of the same page. Here, we aim to show how the repetitiveness doesn’t stop when the day ends but continues as most days feel the same.

Our protagonist “Robyn” is also mostly seen in only one-perspective – kind of like how we see someone through a webcam. Even in panel events that do not normally require us to be in front of the computer, we intentionally did not change the perspective of the character in the comic. We wanted to depict how the pandemic which has led to a switch from most in-person activities to online, such as with classes, does not only affect us during those times in front of the screen but has (in a way) consumed almost every aspect of our life – or at least that is what it feels like. Excluding the sunrise panel (panel 1), our zoom panel is the only exception to this character perspective we have set.

Additionally, the protagonist is not very detailed and exhibits only a limited number of emotions since her environment is so static and also because we wanted her to be a consistent and familiar feature of the panels that the reader can relate to and fill in emotions from their own experiences. However, the comic is still a light-hearted piece instead of one with a darker theme as the protagonist appears to be learning to manage their lifestyle.

The major interactivity feature is the animate on scroll (AOS) since it does not distract too much from the story but also gives a unique look to each panel. We wanted the audience to be able to re-experience the story as many times as they wanted since on re-scrolling you can get the same interaction. The audience can also play/stop sounds by clicking on specific objects. We chose to add sound this way instead of auto playing as the audience scrolls through each panel to not only add some more interactivity where the audience gets to “discover” the sounds but also to provide more control over which sounds are played and when. For objects that can play sounds, we made it so that when the cursor hovers over them it becomes a pointer, indicating that it is a clickable object. This works off the assumption that most people are familiar that the hand/pointer cursor traditionally indicates click, though we added some instructions in the first text box just to be clear.

*Reflection/Evaluation*:
The initial web comic plan was to keep the character fixed in one position and keep changing the background as well as facial expressions. However, that appeared to be much harder and less consistent with our goal of a more relatable character so we had to adapt. It is worth mentioning that the same positioning took 3 completely different attempts and writing a script to come up with the final working version that  looks appealing and satisfying. We constantly had to change how much we wanted to input into the panels and how much we wanted to leave open to readers’ interpretation. For instance, the starting idea was not to narrate the story but let the audience scroll through it without words. However, we felt that the storytelling component and our character’s presence may be too weak so we added narration boxes reminiscent of comics and it worked to give the panels a more comic-like look.

Initially, we had planned to only do original artwork for the background and main character while using cartoonish object images from the internet. However, we soon realized that between matching each object to the art style of our original work and figuring out image licensing, it was more worthwhile to do the majority of object artwork ourselves also, primarily using Adobe Illustrator. This was a fun but time consuming process.

Perhaps the part that went most smoothly was including animations via the animate on scroll library though it had its limitations in where the animations were anchored. Some of the “movement” in the panels including the rising sun and lifting dumbbell are not scroll dependent animation because they were too crucial in the storytelling for their panel and we wanted to fix their interaction with the protagonist and the reader. We decided to add sounds at a later stage of the process to give it some more “click-adventure” feels and increase the potential interactivity and re-readability of the comic. We were able to achieve the amount of control we wanted to give the reader over when sounds play.

On the other hand, css positioning remained a struggle especially for the initial part of the project. Instead of layering background and character images, we decided to merge them into one for easier manuevaribility. We also had to experiment with z-index to control visibility relation between different layered images. Objects would also move around in resizing so in the end, we decided to limit the amount of resizing possible with the panels to preserve their look and encourage readers to fully participate and interact with the comic. It is worth recognizing that it helped to have an XD framework for storyboarding, especially when different people were simultaneously working on different components of the project.

To conclude, we truly enjoyed working on this comic project and by keeping our goals flexible and slowly building on what elements of story and interactivity we wanted to include, we were able to make a comic that incorporates the classic and the web designs, and that we really like!

Ariya Chaloemtoem, Khola Jamshad, Nadja Fejzic
27/10/2020


				--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


3. Sounds Like!

Project Name: NYUAD Campus Cats Tour

Project Description:
This project is an interactive website [made by] NYUAD campus cats who give a tour of their favorite spots on campus. The theme is playful and fun and from the cats' perspective. The tour is given primarily through recordings of the cats (in meows and human talk).

Process: 
Our first step after deciding the concept was to look for images of the campus cats as inspiration for our characters so we referenced the @campuscats Instagram for more professional looking photographs. Based on these, we decided the locations and character archetypes of the cats and wrote out a script for each of them highlighting the cat's location and personality. We then proceeded to give the tour from the cats' perspective instead of humans' so that it is a very subjective (and not entirely true) telling of the story. Each of the cat's stories works independently but taken together presents an arc that recreates a sense of being on the NYUAD campus. We chose to give a different voice to each cat to give them a distinct identity and character that matches the script they are following, whether it be playful, shy, lazy or kind of evil. By adding background noises from the location to the dialogue we wanted to create a different experience and journey for each cat’s territory. The sound is the highlight of the experience as the audio storytelling is the only way for the user to get a complete feeling of what the campus is like. By giving the user a choice to hear in cat and English translation, we felt the experience would be a lot more involved and dynamic. Of course the meows were all recorded from cats on campus for the authentic experience. We wanted to make the website looked like it was created by cats, hence the playful icons, bright colors, scratch marks and paw prints were incorporated into the visual design :)  We decided to design the icons/buttons and the background ourselves and match their color and style to the actual cats so that we have a consistent and unique aesthetic. And finally, by adding a welcome page we wanted the user to know what to expect and clarify that the tour was being hosted by cats.

Reflection/Evaluation:
We were initially going for a vertical slider (where the image that you select enlarges and the others are a little faded) but this changed as we progressed since we felt that it did not match the fun and cartoonish feel of the audio recordings and concept of cat tour guides. It was a little difficult to combine the images with cartoon icons on the page since we did not want to visually overwhelm the user but it turned out to play well together and have a cute yet polished look. We were a little worried about the sound quality, so we tried noise reduction and added background music to try and refine it which worked fairly well. The volume or "presence" of the background audio was also kept different for the cats, for instance near the arts center where it's usually very loud the background was made more overwhelming while near D1 where it's normally quiet, the human speech is much clearer and louder than the background. We also wanted to create a sense of beginning and ending within each cat's story so we used the fade effect on the audios. We had a fair amount of struggle with deciding the layout for the website with regards to the user experience with controlling the sound and selecting the different sounds available. For instance, we initially had a separate play button but we realized that it made the process too long and complicated for the user (as well as from a javascript sound programming perspective) so we decided to remove it and use our language buttons as the primary play and pause. The control buttons were then placed on the left most side of the screen closer with the cat icons in the middle so that from left to right, the user could easily recognize each step of the process in playing the audio. Additionally, we set one of the cats as the default audio because it gives a short introduction to the concept. However, we wanted users to feel they are in control so we gave them the option to decide the order they want to listen or skip between recordings and come back where they left off; and the stories being told will still make sense. We also had to ensure that there was no overlap of audios playing either for the same cat or for different ones. Perhaps the most troublesome elements were trying to figure out spacing on the page and keeping all the separate elements aligned on resizing which could still be improved. Overall, our intentions with the visual feel and the role of the audio in the website came across fairly well and we accomplished the tasks we had set out to with the project.

Christopher Chen, Erica Wu, Khola Jamshad, Maryam Khalili
14/11/2020


					----------------------------------------------------------------------


4. Vid-e-oh!
Project Name: A view from the other side
 
Project Description: 
Our project is a two-part video contrasting the experiences of being on campus (campus video) and being at home (home video) for the fall semester during the COVID-19 pandemic. More specifically, for our project, we created two different videos (~2-3 minutes each) to tell a story about Ariya’s experience being on campus and Erica’s experiences being at home. The home video portrays a close to normal daily experience of someone in a country during the pandemic where COVID-19 is under control (Taiwan), which we are aware is not the case in many other countries. The campus video, on the other hand, portrays quite dull day to day experiences, especially during the time in the semester where many students have left campus early to go home and come out of quarantine in time for celebrations with their family. We also wanted to bring in feelings of nostalgia for the other location (ex. Missing home when being on campus and missing campus when being home) as it is something that most people will be able to. As for the interactive component, we wanted to keep it simple to not take away from the videos. We pose a question to guide the audience to pick a video to watch but in the end the audience has freedom to watch either one in either order they want. The two videos do not need to be viewed in any particular order – they are there to complement each other


Process:
Video Recording:
Due to limitations of the equipment we have access to, all the clips were recorded through our phones. For both the home and campus video, we began by looking through our phones to see what clips we already have. We then spend the next to weeks or so collecting clips organically and see what we end up with and how it can fit to create a story for both the home and campus videos. We wanted to depict things as naturally as we could which was why we went for this approach of just documenting our day to day for a while. We then filled in any gaps in the story by going out to collect specific clips.

Video Editing:
We selected among all the clips in various settings and through various angles to give a clear storyline - a typical day in the environment (home/campus). The videos both start with normal or lighthearted scenes and gradually turn into a sad and lonely tone which induce the protagonist to wonder about what life would be like if they were in the alternative location. For the home video, Erica went to see her friends and after happy events like picnics and concert, she needed to go home alone, and that’s when she again felt lonely and started to wonder what would the life be like at campus, which was expressed visually by the time lapse of sunrise in NYUAD. For the campus video, Ariya started her sunny day with a cup of coffee, wholesome encountering with her friends and campus cats etc, but when she got back to her dorm and found it was only her in that room doing all the mundane activities like homework, dishes, laundries, she started to wonder what life would be like if she was at home.
The interesting part is that the campus video and the home video echo with each other. Although each individual video is a complete story, the two videos together make a cycle.The end of home vid is the start of campus vid, and the end of campus vid is start of home vid, resembling the way we, although enjoying our choices (to be at home/campus), will constantly thinking about the other side.

Sound:
For the sound we included the ambience noise to furtherly engage the viewers in the environment/context. But mainly, we have two background music for two major moods - happy/joyful or blue/lonely. These two pieces of music were used to serve as a foil for the two moods and even possibly accentuate them. The two pieces of music also serve as a natural classification of these random daily clips to foster understanding and empathy between the protagonist in the video and the audience who is watching it.

Website:
The website start look was designed to be very minimalistic and toned down with a single question in a large font on top to prompt the viewer to explore the page. The font chosen is light but large to make it a focus yet non-imposing. If they move over one of the icons, campus or home, it becomes bigger and colored and a trailer of the associated video starts playing in the background in a loop. We didn’t want to add any text with the icons or explain what they are so the trailers are meant to incentivize the viewer to click and watch the video but they are very short 10 second clips with reduced color and opacity so it does not overwhelm visually or take away too much from the experience of watching the actual video. For the trailers, we tried to include scenes from the videos that represented some of the journey that the video takes and generate interest. In particular, the last scene of the trailer is supposed to have the same imagery as the icon for that location to reinforce the relationship between the two. On clicking the icon, the video appears and covers all the other elements on the page so that it is the main focus. It is hosted on youtube so all the control interactivity is from there. We added a close button to return to the start page so that the viewer can explore the other connected video also. The page is set up with flexboxes so when the window size is reduced, the elements all resize accordingly.


Reflection/Evaluation:
Overall, we are quite satisfied with how the final product turned out, both the videos and its presentation on the website. However, we did encounter some difficulties and there are some aspects that we wish we did differently. First of all, it turned out to be quite difficult to get the shots that we wanted. This was both due to the limitations of having to film alone and the quality of our phone cameras. We lost some nice shots due to quality issues, shakiness of lighting, for instance. Furthermore, it was especially difficult to film on campus especially towards the end of the semester where there is just not much going on compounded with regulations regarding filming off-campus. This limited the shots we could include. We also figured that our approach of organically filming may not have been the best way to go about filming as it did not give us a clear direction. If we had more time perhaps this approach could work. But since our time was quite limited, planning our shots more carefully would have allowed us to take better shots and save time during editing. Lastly, the videos were too large to be uploaded on GitHub directly so we had to host them on Youtube. This meant that we had a lot less maneuverability with the controls of the video and how the viewer could interact with them and we had to exclude some potential ideas for interactivity because of this. Positioning of the webpage elements was much smoother with the use of flexboxes. Despite all these challenges and pitfalls, we enjoyed the process and are proud of what we were able to piece together.

Ariya Chaloemtoem, Erica Wu, Khola Jamshad, Treedom Zhang
10/12/2020